README.md, before:

# Sentiment Search: Make the Internet your Focus Group

Visualizing the sentiment of the Internet across multiple media platforms.

> **GitHub repo**: https://github.com/farisdurrani/DVA_Project <br/> **Implemented**: Fall 2022

# How to Run

## Prerequisites:

1. [NodeJS v18](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
1. NPM v9: `npm install npm@latest -g`
1. [Python 3.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3108/)

## Start both the backend and frontend apps once inside [/Project](./Project):

> **Note** the different backend commands for Mac/Linux and Windows

| Action                                                   | Command                |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Install / Update Frontend Packages (one-time)            | `npm run installf`     |
| Install / Update Backend Packages (one-time) (linux/mac) | `npm run installb-mac` |
| Install / Update Backend Packages (one-time) (windows)   | `npm run installb-win` |
| Running the Frontend                                     | `npm run startf`       |
| Running the Backend (linux/mac)                          | `npm run startb-mac`   |
| Running the Backend (windows)                            | `npm run startb-win`   |

# Description and Architecture

Using D3.js and Apexcharts, we compared the changing sentiments over time on over 2.3 million posts from multiple media platforms ranging from January 2015 to November 2022.

## Data Collection

We collected over 2.3 million posts, amounting to 190 GB before being processed down to 1.8 GB, from **Facebook, Reddit, The New York Times, The Guardian, CNN, and Twitter** ranging from January 2015 to November 2022 including by using the platforms' API and web scraping.

Some of those data collection scripts are located in [/Data Collection](./Data%20Collection), while the scripts for collecting posts from CNN and The Guardian are located in:

1. [The Guardian News Article Collector](https://github.com/farisdurrani/TheGuardianArticlesCollector) by @farisdurrani
1. [CNN Web Scraper](https://github.com/farisdurrani/CNNWebScraper) by @farisdurrani

The sentiments were calculated using [vaderSentiment~=3.3.2](https://pypi.org/project/vaderSentiment/), run by the script [make_sentiment.py](./Data%20Collection/make_sentiment.py).

## Frontend

Implemented in [/frontend](./Project/frontend/), the frontend is created on React.JS, and the visualizations by D3.js and Apexcharts.

## Backend

Implemented in [/backend](./Project/backend/), the backend of our app is a **Python** Flask app (`app.py` with support from `api.py`) which converts the csv files containing the data to a pandas dataframe which it uses to return the value queried by the front end as the user changes parameters like keywords and date ranges.

The queries are as follows (a more detailed description can be found in [BACKEND_API](./.github/BACKEND_API.md):

- `/ OR /test`:
  Given no parameters, return a simple Hello World message to indicate the backend is alive

- `/api/getSummary`:
  Given some filter parameters, give the summary of sentiment data.
  For each platform of each date, give its mean sentiment, as well as the mean sentiment of
  that date and the count of posts on that date.

- `/api/getBodyText`:
  Given a list of post IDs, return the full post data for each post

- `/api/getBagOfWords`:
  Given some filter parameters, return the number of occurrences across all
  posts of the most common words, along with the mean sentiment of all posts containing
  that word.

- `/api/getPlatformFrequencies`:
  Given filter parameters, return the count and mean sentiment of posts on each platform

# Authors

1. Faris Durrani [@farisdurrani](https://github.com/farisdurrani)
1. Justin Zandstra [@justinzandstra](https://github.com/justinzandstra)
1. Lakshmisree Iyengar [@lakshmisree-iitk](https://github.com/lakshmisree-iitk)
1. Nemath Ahmed [@nemathahmed](https://github.com/nemathahmed)
1. RenChu Wang [@rentruewang](https://github.com/rentruewang)
1. Shuyan Lin [@shuyanl915](https://github.com/shuyanl915)

# License

Sentiment Search is MIT licensed, as found in the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.

The software's documentation is Creative Commons licensed, as found in the [LICENSE-docs](./.github/LICENSE-docs) file.

Commit message:

Added download datasets in readme

README.md, after:

# Sentiment Search: Make the Internet your Focus Group

Visualizing the sentiment of the Internet across multiple media platforms.

> **GitHub repo**: https://github.com/farisdurrani/sentiment-search <br/> **Implemented**: Fall 2022

# How to Run

## Prerequisites:

1. [NodeJS v18](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
1. NPM v9: `npm install npm@latest -g`
1. [Python 3.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3108/)
1. Download the `reduced_data` dataset from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/farisdurrani/sentimentsearch), unzipping it, and putting all the contents inside [/backend](./Project/backend) 

## Start both the backend and frontend apps once inside [/Project](./Project):

> **Note** the different backend commands for Mac/Linux and Windows

| Action                                                   | Command                |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Install / Update Frontend Packages (one-time)            | `npm run installf`     |
| Install / Update Backend Packages (one-time) (linux/mac) | `npm run installb-mac` |
| Install / Update Backend Packages (one-time) (windows)   | `npm run installb-win` |
| Running the Frontend                                     | `npm run startf`       |
| Running the Backend (linux/mac)                          | `npm run startb-mac`   |
| Running the Backend (windows)                            | `npm run startb-win`   |

# Description and Architecture

Using D3.js and Apexcharts, we compared the changing sentiments over time on over 2.3 million posts from multiple media platforms ranging from January 2015 to November 2022.

## Data Collection

We collected over 2.3 million posts, amounting to 190 GB before being processed down to 1.8 GB, from **Facebook, Reddit, The New York Times, The Guardian, CNN, and Twitter** ranging from January 2015 to November 2022 including by using the platforms' API and web scraping.

Some of those data collection scripts are located in [/Data Collection](./Data%20Collection), while the scripts for collecting posts from CNN and The Guardian are located in:

1. [The Guardian News Article Collector](https://github.com/farisdurrani/TheGuardianArticlesCollector) by @farisdurrani
1. [CNN Web Scraper](https://github.com/farisdurrani/CNNWebScraper) by @farisdurrani

The sentiments were calculated using [vaderSentiment~=3.3.2](https://pypi.org/project/vaderSentiment/), run by the script [make_sentiment.py](./Data%20Collection/make_sentiment.py).

## Frontend

Implemented in [/frontend](./Project/frontend/), the frontend is created on React.JS, and the visualizations by D3.js and Apexcharts.

## Backend

Implemented in [/backend](./Project/backend/), the backend of our app is a **Python** Flask app (`app.py` with support from `api.py`) which converts the csv files containing the data to a pandas dataframe which it uses to return the value queried by the front end as the user changes parameters like keywords and date ranges.

The queries are as follows (a more detailed description can be found in [BACKEND_API](./.github/BACKEND_API.md):

- `/ OR /test`:
  Given no parameters, return a simple Hello World message to indicate the backend is alive

- `/api/getSummary`:
  Given some filter parameters, give the summary of sentiment data.
  For each platform of each date, give its mean sentiment, as well as the mean sentiment of
  that date and the count of posts on that date.

- `/api/getBodyText`:
  Given a list of post IDs, return the full post data for each post

- `/api/getBagOfWords`:
  Given some filter parameters, return the number of occurrences across all
  posts of the most common words, along with the mean sentiment of all posts containing
  that word.

- `/api/getPlatformFrequencies`:
  Given filter parameters, return the count and mean sentiment of posts on each platform

# Authors

1. Faris Durrani [@farisdurrani](https://github.com/farisdurrani)
1. Justin Zandstra [@justinzandstra](https://github.com/justinzandstra)
1. Lakshmisree Iyengar [@lakshmisree-iitk](https://github.com/lakshmisree-iitk)
1. Nemath Ahmed [@nemathahmed](https://github.com/nemathahmed)
1. RenChu Wang [@rentruewang](https://github.com/rentruewang)
1. Shuyan Lin [@shuyanl915](https://github.com/shuyanl915)

# License

Sentiment Search is MIT licensed, as found in the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file.

The software's documentation is Creative Commons licensed, as found in the [LICENSE-docs](./.github/LICENSE-docs) file.
